# Optimal Flocking Dynamics
Codes for the optimization of flocking dynamics in several control tasks by designing agent heterogeneity.

See the references below for more details.




# Usage

- `nonlinearobsvmatrix.m` : Computes the observability matrix of a nonlinear system `f(x)` with a measurement function `h(x)` based on symbolic computations of the Lie derivatives of `f(x)` with respect to `h(x)`.

- `example_chaoticsys.m` : Complete and functional observability analysis of several chaotic systems (Lorenz, Cord, Hindmarsh-Rose neuron, and Rossler; ODEs available in the folder `systems`).

- `seizure` : This folder contains example codes for the functional observability analysis of the Epileptor model and the use of the time-series-based index SVDO for early-warning alert of seizure-like events in synthetic data (generated by the Epileptor model, see `example_epileptor.m`) and empirical data (human EEG data, see `example_eegdata.m`).

# License

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

The full text of the GNU General Public License can be found in the file "LICENSE.txt".


# References
1.  AN Montanari, AED Barioni, C Duan, AE Motter. Optimal flock formation induced by heterogeneity. (2024)
2.  R Olfati-Saber. Flocking for multi-agent dynamic systems: Algorithms and theory. *IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control* **51**:401-420 (2006).
